---
title: "Vy Huynh Capstone Project ePortfolio"
---

**Artifact One: Software Design and Engineering**     
The artifact that I started the first enhancement with was my clock project from CS210. In the clock project, the user is asked to input a time such as 23:00:12, the program will then return the user the time in military time, and AM/PM time. The user will then be able to add 1 hour, add 1 min, or 1 second to the clock, in which the clock will return the new time in AM/PM and military time. I selected this project as part of my portfolio because I felt it was a very fun project to code, and it was also one of the first projects that I coded in. So I knew that my code was not polished and had countless issues and edge cases that went unchanged and unaccounted for.  My plan for enhancement for this project is first rewrite the program in python instead of its original language of python. Next, I would like to make the clock run by itself instead of it not running. The user would still be able to add 1 hour, 1 min, or 1 second to the clock, and it won’t stop the clock but instead keep it running. The user will also have the ability to manually input how many hours, minutes, and seconds they would like to change the clock by, instead of just adding 1 hour, 1 minute, and 1 second each time. First, I will study and fully understand the working of the C++ file beforehand. After understanding how my code works, I'll figure out how to get a live running clock on python. Next I will convert all the code that is C++ and convert them to python code. Finally, I will add the last extra function of the code, which allows the user to choose to manually enter the number of hour/minute/second they would like to change the clock by. All these improvements overall improve the experience of the clock as it allows for automations where users aren’t expected to manually input the time, and it allows for more freedom as users can also enter custom hours they would like to change the clock by. 


